>> Steve Kinney: I want to be
able to check these buttons or
remove the item, right?
Where does the list of items live?
>> Steve Kinney: The application
component, right?
What's in the middle between
the individual item and
the application component.
The item's list, right?
The list of the items.
So
this means that in order to get that event
listener down to the individual item,
I've got to start going down from
the application, down to the item's list,
from the item's list down to the item,
right?
And then that even we'll get
called all the way back up.
All right, who's ready to have fun?
Let's do it, cool.
So let's go ahead and
we'll define these in application.
>> Steve Kinney: And
let's go back up here, cool.
So we have addItem, and
let's call this one let's have
it removing an item first,
because that's easy to name.
Remove an item, and we'll say.
Now we have it in an array because
an array is really easy to work with.
It ultimately means we're going to
have to iterate it through every time,
like if you were trying to, if you
knew this was going to get large and
you wanted to find one quick like you
might be better off with an object.
Right?
Cuz that way you have keys and
values and you can be like hey I wanna
remove this key from the object.
That would technically probably be more
performant and in the larger application.
Something you should definitely do.
But adding a lot of extra like code to
this already slightly [INAUDIBLE] example.
So we're gonna continue using an array,
but definitely take a mental
bookmark that having an object and
removing keys might be more performing.
Alright, lets say this dot set state,
capitalize set state even,
and really what we want to do is set
the state to the array of items minus 1.
Does anyone have a suggestion of how I get
an array with everything but one item?
Filter it out, right?
That'll work.
So then we'll say.
And how would I find that one?
I have an item that I'm looking for.
Right, I'm going through
each one of them and
I have to name this variable something
else or I can call this one itemToRemove.
And we'll go through all the items and
if you have an ID that matches
the one I'm looking for guess what?
You're leaving the array.
A better way to put that with Filter is If
you don't have the ID that we're looking
for, we will pass over you and
go to the next one.
Right.
You're spared and
like we'll keep going until we find
the one that we're looking for.
So we'll say each individual one,
it does not equal the item to remove,
dot ID.
Alright, very cool.
So, I have it in application, but
it needs to start going down each line.
This is going to be slightly problematic.
I also need, I did not have a semicolon.
Alright, so I'm going to pass this down to
each of the items list, and then that's
gonna have to pass it down to each item.
>> Steve Kinney: So
what we'll do in this case is we'll
add another prop here and we'll say,
on remove,
>> Steve Kinney: This.removeItem, and
then we'll pass it down to the other one.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
cool, that gets us one step there,
but not all the way,
because we've gotta go down another layer.
So we'll go to the items list,
>> Steve Kinney: Plural.
And you can see that it is
passing this default one,
this empty function down that way.
Basically, so my code didn't blow up cuz
the event listeners aren't really wired
up, os here's just a no-op.
So we know that now, this is a prop,
it's this.props to onRemove.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we'll bring it in.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
and What I'm gonna do is
I have two choices here.
I can provide it the ID now, or
I can let it pass the ID in,
and then pass it out on the way back up.
I'm gonna opt for,
I have the ID already right here.
So I'm gonna say hey,
>> Steve Kinney: We have props,
and we'll just pull it out on onRemove.
The item id, so when they click this,
we'll pass it in, so
when they click the remove link on
the item, that's gonna be passed in from
the items, which is gonna go
up to the application, right?
Again, this is a small application.
This doesn't get any better
as your application grows.
So let's try that out,
make sure I didn't have some kind of bug.
>> Speaker 2: You're passing by ID,
but you were expecting [INAUDIBLE]
>> Steve Kinney: Let's check.
>> Steve Kinney: So remove,
we alsp have to say,
this.props has to go down as
well.
>> Steve Kinney: You're right,
I need the whole item.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we'll fix that here as well.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll head back over.
All right, so
now I can remove the phone charger.
You can see that I did derive
the count from the list of items.
I didn't set it manual
each time I had an item.
They're saying, hey,
you got an array of items.
Go ahead and see how long it is.
So that state's derived.
I can remove one.
I can add one.
I also need to be able to check off one.
All right?
And that's gonna be very similar to how we
did it with remove.
I'm going to change it up slightly,
which is I'm going to pass the function
all the way down this time.
Obviously what you want
to be is consistent,
I'm just going to demonstrate both, right?
You can kind of, we can see the difference
but really, you should both removing and
checking off the same way.
Alright, I'll go back
to my application And
I'm gonna make a new
one called toggleItem.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
I have the problem again, I have an array.
What's the easiest way to
change one in an array?
>> Steve Kinney: I could map over it and
say, hey,
if you're the one I'm looking for,
I wanna replace you a new one
otherwise stay the way you where.
So we'll try that out.
So we'll have toggle item and
what we'll do is we'll say
>> Steve Kinney: So this.state.items.
>> Steve Kinney: Map over all of
the items.
>> Steve Kinney: If the item
ID Does not equal items to toggle.
Just don't touch it.
>> Steve Kinney: Otherwise,
we'll return the copy of the item, so
remember when use the spread operator
to copy an array, guess what?
It also works on objects as well.
So what I'll do is I'll just say
>> Steve Kinney: If I
do this right here it will copy
all of the properties right but
I can also define extra properties and
those will overwrite previous ones.
What I wanna point out here is
Xavier asked me a question during
when we're working he's like Hey
if I use said state and I only
pass it one property I want to change,
does it clear out all the other ones?
No.
It only replaces keys that are in
the object you pass the said state.
And effectively that's working the same
way that this spread operator works.
Which is it's going to take all the keys
to items to toggle and then whatever I
pass in additionally we'll just copy,
previous ones on the Adams toggle.
Right?
So, we'll just overwrite
just the keys that we said.
So, we'll say packed equals,
and I'll just flip that.
So, if you're not the Adam we're looking
for, we'll add the ID here Pass over it.
If you are the item that we're looking
for, then we want to flip this.
And then we will this.setState.
>> Steve Kinney: And
if you're starting to think, this is
a little bit tedious, that's the point.
Right, the point is that we have
to pass all the stuff down,
we have to bring it back up.
Some of this manually manipulating arrays
is because we're not actually sending
API requests cuz we haven't
talked about async yet.
So some of that is not necessarily
going to get so much better,
except that we're gonna start copy and
pasting.
That'll be better, but
this idea of passing everything down and
bringing everything back up is part of
the problem that we're gonna try to solve.
Through the remainder of the day.
First, let's see if we
have everything working.
So we created it but
we didn't passed it down yet.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we can say,
>> Steve Kinney: Remember,
we're looking at keeping our code dry.
Am I doing a really good job with that
right now, as I type the same thing twice?
I'm not, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
we'll pass toggle item down, and let's
see what I actually named it in items.
Change that to
>> Steve Kinney: Bring in
that on Toggle and pass it down.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
one more level to go.
And we'll say onChange.
And we'll say.
>> Steve Kinney: And
I clean this up in a second.
>> Steve Kinney: Pass the item back on up.
So we pass the function down two levels.
It will get called.
That's still gonna be executing from the
application where we have to move stuff
that will change the array in
the application which will change
the items being passed to the item's list
which will change the item that gets here.
Before we celebrate, alright it works.
Cool.
We have one more thing to do but
luckily this one's easier because
mark alls unpacked is to demonstrate.
It'd be great if we didn't
have to pass stuff down,
because here we're trying to
do all of the items, right?
And guess where we have all of the items?
In the same place that we
have the unpack button.
So this is like again,
like a quick refresher to not have
to go through all of these
steps to pass stuff down.
So let's go ahead and
implement that real quick in application.
So we have this button full width.
What we will do is make a new
method here called Mark all
as unpacked.
>> Steve Kinney: And
I'm just going to grab
this code right here.
Except that no matter what,
we wanna say packed is false,
and we don't want a conditional.
Do it to every item.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
>> Steve Kinney: Alright let's take
a look at that.
If you don't add it to the button
it doesn't work, fun fact.
This dot mark All as unpacked.
>> Steve Kinney: Fax them,
mark them all as unpacked, and we have
mostly a functioning version, right?
Like, careful watchers will know as
we didn't implement the filter yet,
part of the point of doing all this,
step-by-step, was to show you how,
one, how error-prone it is.
Two, slightly torturous, right?
So I'm not going to subject to also doing
it on the filter at this point as well.
But we all know how that would have gone,
right?
We would have actually been able
just to keep that in the Items list.
Cuz each one of these is unique, right?
We wanna change state in
the items list itself.
And then we would have used that value
to filter everything out, right?
So we can do that in each one of them.